I have decieded to go for the Minikube being used as a local Kubernetes cluster. First of all, I have installed the WSL on my desktop PC and installed Docker. After that, I installed the Minikube as well as the Kubectl tool in order to interact with my Kubernetes cluster. After starting the Minicube cluster, I installed the fresh sample of nginx deployment for my future reference. For easier investigation and navigation, I enabled the Minikube dashboard and verified that sample nginx is installed. Then I uploaded the nginx.yaml file on my K8s and saw that it is not starting.

First of all, I checked through the dashboard if there are some distinctive errors that I could face. But in result, the nginx was just not starting. 

So I decided to check the .yaml contents thinking maybe there is some syntax error. I opened the faulty configuration and the sample one for my reference and started matching them. There are to sections - deployment and service. So I started checking the variables and see if there are any mismatches or mistakes. 

After that, I have noticed that the app name in both sections differ, which I though might be an issue. 

So the following section in Deployment:
creationTimestamp: '2024-04-07T20:42:50Z'
  labels:
    app: sretest

And the service one: 

kind: Service
spec:
  selector:
    app: sretest-service

Does not match. So I decided to change the 'app' parameter in the service section to:
selector:
    app: sretest.

Then I saved the file, but the new error appeared: 0/1 nodes are available: 1 node(s) didn't match Pod's node affinity/selector. preemption: 0/1 nodes are available: 1 Preemption is not helpful for scheduling

I started the research of what could be the problem. Apparently, a node was not labelled to the application. So I thought that I need to label it with the required value and label. For these purposes I have used the following command: kubectl label nodes minikube node-role.kubernetes.io/application=sretest . The application got restarted and its state became active in Minikube dashboard (link to screenshot). In order to verify the configuration, I needed the link to access the website. So I used the command  minikube service sretest-service --url to get the URL. After that I open the browser and see the result, the Nginx default page appeared and everything works.


In the result, I need to find out how can I retrieve the merged nginx.yaml file with fixes and new configuration into one single file so it contains both deployment and service sections. 

To check the services and deployments I used these commands: kubectl get deployments and kubectl get services.

Then I exported them to .yaml files using the following commands respectively: kubectl get deployment sretest -o yaml > nginx-deployment.yaml and kubectl get services sretest-service -o yaml > nginx-service.yaml . To combine them I used simple cat command: cat nginx-deployment.yaml nginx-service.yaml > nginx-new.yaml
